ANALYSIS OF HEALTH CARE
The main aim of this project is to provide a deep analysis on data generated by the hospital. In healthcare, a large number of structured and unstructured data is generated from hospitals. The analysis of healthcare parameters and the prediction of the subsequent future health conditions are still in the informative stage. The big data analytical platform is one of the best ways to analyze the data of all type generated by the hospitals and perform different statistical operations on them to get desired output. 
This project has used the data generated from Kings Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai (KEM). This project has applied some of the models on data to improve the performance of the hospital in many ways such as: - infrastructure of the hospital and many more. 
The project contains an interesting demographic representation of the data, as well as some features that can improve the medical conditions of the hospital. This project also contains the trends of the diseases seen in past years and applying prediction models on this data to predict the future conditions
The health care plays an important role in any country. An efficient health care system can contribute to a significant part of a country's economy, development and industrialization. Health care is conventionally regarded as an important determinant in promoting the general physical and mental health and well-being of people around the world. However, the health care system is not up to the mark in developing countries like India. So, there is a strong need to analyze the deaths occurring due to diseases across the country in addition to fixing the cause of it. With the R tool for visualization it is easy to understand and interpret the results of dataset produced by applying various techniques on it. R performs wide variety of functions, such as data manipulation, statistical modeling in graphics.
Data gathered for this project is collected from King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai. This hospital is attached to Seth G.S Medical College. It is one of the best government hospitals in India and the people come from all over India to get treated here. As it is a government hospital, the treatment cost here is cheap compared to other private hospitals and so the load of patients on this hospital is very high. Hence this project can be considered a real environment-based analysis.
With the help of predictive modeling technique like Linear Regression, it is easy and significantly efficient to understand the upcoming count of the admitted patients in future based on the diseases. This will help the hospital to keep ready for the all the necessary procedures and actions in advance. Clustering helps to relate observations in the same group to be similar and observations in different groups to be dissimilar. 
With Aggregation methods, it is easy to understand the average admitted patients according to the diseases based on gender. Using the same we can also understand the average death patients according to the diseases based on gender. Using the method, it is easy to interpret the total number of patients admitted and death for a year. It also makes easy to understand the monthly trend of diseases according to the gender.
Also using analytical techniques, the seasonal trend of diseases can be interpreted in an understandable way. Using R tool techniques, average daily patient’s data for the diseases can be interpreted and which will be use to show the load of patients on the hospital and can be used by the hospitals to improve the health services. This will also state the increase and decrease of the patients yearly.
